Section 6 - Seven season you must put together an incident respone plan 

incident response require skilled personnel, time expenditure for training and prepration,
and a constans understanding of the evolution oof emerging tactics, techniques, and procedures.
why should you spend event more time and money developing and testing somthing lik an incident response plan?
    1. quickly and efficiently restore operation.
        - incident response plan provide security teams a rapid workflow to return systems back to fully operational status.
    2. minimize/mitigate potental losses or damage.
        - incindent response plans ensure that the last possible time is wasted while remediating network assets 
    3. ensure continuius security hardening.
        - incident response plans provide a loopback for constant improvement to the plan, procdures, and team members involved.
    4. set and maintain public or customer reputation and expectation.
        - incident response plans are often somewhat (usually in part) publicly available to investors and customers fr consideration
    5. accurately assess and plan around shortfalls 
        - incident response plans will identify holes or shortcomings in the response tools, action, and personnel that can be remediated
          before an incident occurs
    6. proactively project future security needs 
        - incident response plans can accurately predict security team needs for business processes before they become and incident 
    7. clarify security strengths and weaknesses 
        - security teams are often a pool of similar but non-homogenous skill sets. incident response plans can quantify those skill sets 
          into strengths and weeknesses of the team as a whole and 
          identify avenues for training or future additions to the team.

Section 7 - How to build an effective incident response team 

an affective incident response teamm, as with any team, start with the personnel that comprise it. the individuals should have unique skill
sets that coalsce toghether effectively and provide a broad spectrum of specializations to respond to most any situation. the team must work
together well, individuals will quickly become ovrwhelmed whit larger incident and sheer amount of work that it can take to ffectively remediate them.
US CERT recommends the following roles for an effective incindent respose team:

    - manager or team lead
    - assistant managers or group leaders 
    - help desk or triage staff
    - incident handlers 
    - vulnreability handlers
    - artifact analysis staff 
    - platform specialists
    - trainers
    - technology watch

in reality, there is rarely the funding or the required personnel pool to staff all of those roles.
a good compromise is to compound those roles into fawer personnel and staff according into your environmenta needs, while maintaining the necessary
skll sets reuired to triage your incident effctively. please note that the roles and responsibilities be documented in your incident response plan.
an example of what that might look like is below:

1. team role : manager or team lead 
   responsibilities : create and maintains incident response plan. source other team personnel, and skill sets (contractors/technology/service).
      oversees and reports team status to external stakeholders.
   skills: resilience to stress. communicates between technical and non-technical stakeholders. highly organized and capable of making quick decisions.

2. team role : technical team lead
   responsibilities : oversees and reviews the teams technical work. reports to the manager or team lead
   skills : high technical skill and knowladge os incident response procedures, existing and emrging threats, and current environment structure.

3. team role : team members or analysts 
   responsibilities : perform intrusions detection and issues recomendations regarding new vulnerabilities or threat. performs incident response
      procedures as written.
   skill : high system administration skills. individuals proficient at disparate technology areas (SMEs), and critical thinking/problem 
      solving abilities.

Section 8 - considerations for creating an incident response team 

there are always limiting factors and specific requirements unique to each environment and enclave thath should be taken into consideration before
assembling any team. these are condensed most easily into people, process, and required equipment or materials. auditing these factors may be a 
massive undertaking, and it is not uncommon for the initial audit to be conducted while the need for an incident response team is being defined.
there is no shame in contracting outtsid help from. professionals to audit everything necessary whithin an organization to support an incident respone 
team. the following is an example of some of those considerations uder the general audit categories:

1. people - an audit of your personel and hiring pool: generally, this will determine of there are sufficient personnel already present to staff an
   incident respose team. it wil likely use your existing skill set definitions to furtuher determine if those existing personnel may need more training
   or if it will be necessary to look for outside skill sets. that may come in the form of full time employees or contractors, and wil depend on what
   requirements are defined in terms of cost and specializations. if full time employees are requested , the audit may go so far as to look at how many
   practicioners exist in your local area adn what their general cost may be.

2. process - this part of the audit will look into the already existing plans and businss requirements that will surround the new incident response team,
   as well as the newly planned requrements creates for it. this will allow a recommendation to be made on what to incorporate into the new reporting
   requirements, and may include any regulatory compliance that would be necessary to incorporate into the plan during development.

3. required equipment or materials - this audit will detail the necessary equipment for the team to efficiently and effectivley control and incident 
   as well as other logistical task. it takse into account the time and expense of both full time employees, as well as, contractors and arrives at a
   cost to benefit ratio for each to reach the necessary goal of the team. this could range in detail from just security specific tools all the way to
   individual workspaces of the team including laptops and office chairs. this audit along with the process audit wil tell you how many indiciduals you
   can currently support, wat the base cost is for any additional, and should take into account future tool growth and needs.

section 9 - tips for incident response team members

incident response is a different dynamic both in people and process than any other IT or OT related filed. as such, the tam members require a different 
set of skills and attitude than many other technical fields. the following are some tips from the trenches, spanningmultiple decades worth of incident
response experience.

1. Commuication - this cannot be stated or stessed enough. practice your communication and define specific words, acronys, or designations beforehand. 
the first thing to degrade when a situation becomes stessful is communication. communicate clearly, succinctly, and often. don't confuse communication 
with noise.

2. Documentations - make small notes while the incident is ongoing, timestamps with small entries briefly explaining on-going event are  immensely 
helpful later when preparing a full report.

3. feedback - mae and accept critical feedback. emotions and tempers flare under stress, and just about every security incident is stressful.
let team members know when they are incorrect, but be sure to recceive similar information gracefully.

4. teach each other - all the team members likely have individual strengths and weaknesses. theach each other as much as you can. diversify new training
into individual interests as much as possible and disseminate to each other often. 

5. team work - remember that the team succeeds or fails together. you name will be listed next to the team taht either stopped the incident or winds up
in the news leter, regardless of personal performance. train like you fight, and fight like you traindes. respect each other. rock and roll.



